V4P4: feat(buildpack): scaffolding creation (#1500)
magento/pwa-studio: pwa-devdocs/_drafts/configuration-management/buildpack-cli/create-project/index.md

---
title: create-project
---

<!-- TODO: Publish this topic under the buildpack-cli reference directory when the feature becomes available -->

The `create-project` sub-command of the [`pwa-buildpack`][] CLI is a [scaffolding][] tool used to create a fresh PWA Studio app in a new project directory.

Normally this command is used indirectly through the `@magento/pwa` scaffolding tool.

> The tool collects the parameter values through its interactive prompt and passes them onto the command as options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tool collects the parameter values through its interactive prompt and passes them on to the command as options.
```

I'm so sorry 😿

This tool is also available for developers or third-party automation tools to use directly.

**Example:** Using the command with `npx`:

```sh
npx @magento/pwa-buildpack create-project ./new-pwa \
  --name @magezilla/new-pwa \
  --template venia-concept \
  --backend-url https://local.magento \
  --author MageZilla
```

This example creates a new project in the `./new-pwa` folder.
The package metadata for the project lists the project name as `@magezill/new-pwa` and the author as `MageZilla`.
It also creates a `.env` file with the backend URL set to `https://local.magento`.

> After creating the project, it installs the package dependencies, including the Venia, Peregrine and Buildpack libraries needed to build the application.

Reviewer: Does it? I thought it just spit out a message saying "you (the developer) should do it".

Author: It does if you choose that option! It's the last prompt in the questionnaire.
